First, I know that the word `localization` sometimes has a root `localis`, not `localiz`. I guess it depends on the grammatical form, I think this is messy, and prefer a "more latin" variant.

Recently I've had a chance to contribute into the Ukrainian localization for some great location app. The Ukrainian is my native language, and I know it at C2, not C1 (thanks to the [Petro Jacyk competition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Petro_Jacyk), my mom, and my teachers).
I've experienced some points of frustration:
+ an incomplete glossary: you may have some glossary for your app, but it doesn't contain all the "domain" words
+ an inconsistent glossary: there're translations for each phrase in the glossary, but as different phrases contain the same domain words, that words may have different translations
+ a consistent glossary, which differs from the System settings: this case is the most tough, because you can polish your glossary, and make it perfect and synchronized e.g. with Android. Then you'll be very surprised to find that e.g. on iOS the same domain names differ. E.g. the word `Location (data)` can be `Геодані` vs `Геолокація` and so on. You may think that iOS/Android difference is expected, and that we can "just" create a glossary for each platform. But, as I see how far from perfect some Android system glossary is, and how Android devices differ from each other, I won't be surprised if the Ukrainian glossary differed for different Android providers.                     
+ an automatic decision making helper: so there's a list of strings, which need to be translated; for each of the strings, you detect a set of "complex" words; for each of the words, you try to find the translation in the glossary; the issues you may encounter:
  + this word has different translations in different phrases because the context matters
  + this word already has a translation, it's unique, everything is perfect, except the fact that a grammatical form differs, so e.g. you type the word `локація`, get zero results, delete the letters one-by-one from the last, until similar translations are found.
+ the absence of an adequate peer review system: the existing localization tools are strange (terrible UX; an edit history present, but no built-in PR tools like on Github; no basis warnings for typos; *as you choose a one variant out of a few possible, not an infinity, your reviewer should see the same variants to confirm your choice*), and even if the developers are commiting JSONs/XMLs, the reviewers still needs the glossary, manual search for the grammatical forms in that glossary, you got it
+ given the string, and the domain, you still need to know all the context; for this you need a screeshot; it's long/hard/impossible to navigate to the specific screen which holds a context for this word in the app

As these problems were boiling in my head for a few days, today I've realized(btw, realize ~ localize :D) I can create some kind of automated system for it.
But as formulating all these messy thoughts here took some time, doing requirements/persistence/backend/frontend can take months. And I've seen only a one localization system! Maybe the others are more adequate. And maybe this case is Ukrainian-specific, as the Ukrainian language isn't well represented technically (the population is relatively poor, and [*** ru*sian* is competing with Ukrainian](https://github.com/gatamar/gist_blog/blob/main/lang_russian.md); two years ago, there was no Siri support for Ukrainian language, and I'm not sure there's a one now). 
